Who knows what Christmas is all about?
Sure, Charlie Brown.
I can tell you what Christmas is all about.
Lights, please.
And there were in the same country shepherds, abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night and low.
The angel of the Lord came upon them.
The glory of the Lord shone round about them.
and they were so afraid, and the angel said unto them, if you're not.
For behold, I bring your tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David, a Savior, just Christ the Lord, and this shall be a sign unto you.
You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger, and suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,
Glory to God in the highest.
And on earth peace, goodwill toward men.
That's what Christmas is all about, Charlie Brown.
Merry Christmas, Winter.
Tell everybody to do it tonight.
Yeah.
I'm so glad to see each and every one of you, man.
It's your first time here, first time alone, time here, every week.
It's a pleasure to have you in the room with us tonight.
Worshing him hanging out and just end this time of fellowship on this beautiful Christmas Eve.
I had my notes written as a bitter cold outside, but man, it wasn't.
It was at a tank top today and living life, and man, it was awesome.
I don't want to get used to it.
I've already seen the forecast.
You don't have to tell me.
what's happening.
We are in our series, Christmas at the movies.
Now, in a pretty far apart from die hard a couple of weeks ago, we're gonna be looking at a Charlie Brown Christmas.
And we've done a few other movies.
You haven't seen them or heard those summers that I've encouraged to go to our app on church.tv.
They're all on there.
You can check them now to go back to see last year's Christmas series and the year before that, all of those things.
But, you know, what's tonight?
and Charlie Brown Christmas.
And I don't know about you, but as a kid growing up, Charlie Brown Christmas was, it was like a tradition.
But as I look back on it, I don't think it was a tradition.
I didn't think it was the only thing on TV.
Some of you might be surprised, but there was no Netflix.
No Paramount Plus, none of those things, no cable, just three channels, and all of them had Charlie Brown.
And I don't know, it was, I'm from Texas.
So that must've meant there was not a football game on at the same time that Charlie Brown and Christmas came on.
So I don't know if it was tradition or just kind of all we had, but honestly, if you haven't seen it or haven't seen it a long time, it'll take a few minutes and kind of run this clip for you guys to check out.
I don't know, I just don't know.
Well, I guess we better concentrate on finding a nice Christmas tree.
Gee, did they still make wooden Christmas trees?
This little green one here seems to need a home.
I don't know, Charlie Brown.
Remember what Lucy said?
This doesn't seem to fit the modern spirit.
I don't care.
All decorated, and it'll be just right for our play.
Besides, I think it needs me.
and be to all people.
For unto you is born this day in the city of David, a savior, to Christ the Lord.
And this should be a sign unto you.
Linus is right.
I won't let all this commercialism ruin my Christmas.
I'll take this little tree home and decorate it.
And I'll show them it really will work in our play.
Oh, everything I touch gets ruined.
I never thought it was such a bad little tree.
It's not bad at all, really.
Maybe it just needs a little love.
very simple little Christmas special aired for the first time December 9th in 1965.
60 years ago.
But even today it still speaks with a kind of childlike honesty.
I believe our world desperately needs to hear.
You know in the special Charlie Brown, he's discouraged and he's really
And he just can't seem to find the true meaning of Christmas.
You know, everywhere he goes, is commercialism and distraction and pressure.
Sound familiar?
I think we see that today.
Everywhere we look.
But he's hoping to discover something deeper.
He volunteers to direct the play.
Maybe we really get into that.
And as you can expect, from the Charlie Brown, nothing goes right.
Anybody know how that goes for you?
I mean, I know that in my life.
You're just so close.
Just can't get it right.
So he sends a pick out the Christmas tree.
And everyone tells him, you know, you got to get this aluminum tree.
And then Lucy tries to encourage him to get this pink one.
But Charlie Brown's heart is drawn to that poor little tree.
The tree that nobody wanted.
And of course, he saw his disaster.
The kids laugh at him.
They mock him.
They roll their eyes.
Everyone.
Everyone except Linus.
Linus steps up with compassion that he always seemed to carry with him.
And he looks at the tree and he says it right there.
I never thought this was such a bad little tree.
It's not bad at all, really.
It just needs a little love.
You know, Linus didn't see what everyone else saw.
You didn't see a mistake.
You didn't see something worthless.
He saw potential.
He saw value.
He saw what love could make it become.
And sure enough, the tree was transformed into something beautiful.
And when I watch Linus, I see God's heart.
I see God's heart.
God's looks at us and our brokenness, our failures, our weakness is and says, I never thought that was such a bad little tree.
God doesn't turn away from us at our worst.
He moves towards us.
And Paul says this in Romans 5, 8, but God put his love on the line for us.
by offering his son and sacrificial death while we were of no use whatsoever to him.
No use, absolutely no use, and other translations of sinners of no use, spiritually useless.
We were messy, sinful, stuck, and God still wanted us.
when we were at our worst on Christmas, he gave his best.
And that love, it does not just forgive us, but it transforms us.
And 2 Corinthians 5 Paul also says, if anyone united with Jesus gets a fresh start, is created new, God put the wrong on him who never did anything wrong.
So we could be put right with God.
You know, when we look at Charlie Brown Christmas, it's not just the nostalgic cartoon.
It's a reminder of a God who loves what the world rejects and restores what the world tosses aside.
You know, this Christmas, may you and I remember that we
are not incomplete.
We are not unwanted.
We're not beyond repair.
If God sees past and beyond our brokenness and you see what we can become in His love.
And when you find yourself asking, isn't there anyone who knows
what Christmas is all about.
And you find yourself asking that question.
Man, may God put a Linus in your life that'll point you back to the truth.
Point you back to the truth.
You got anybody that in here that restores old cars, any car restores back to anybody?
You haven't seen them, no.
You know, God now take those old rusty, beat up cars.
And man, they just work hours and hours and hours restoring them.
You know what?
Just in wine.
For the lack of me, I added wine.
And it's because what we see is junk.
Man, they see value.
They see value there.
And you know, Charlie Brown, he was in the restoration business too.
He wanted to restore the true meaning of Christmas.
And you know what he was criticized for?
The TV executives at the time in the sixties did not want to air this specialty.
It was just hated and just, man, it was just despised by the executives.
It was too religious.
It was too quiet, not enough going on.
You know, too much jazz music.
It just didn't.
fit and back then all everything else had like this last track behind it didn't it didn't have that it didn't have that and then to really fire them up they used real children real children's voices for the animation and you know by every metric every metric we know it should have failed it should have failed and now
It's the second longest running Christmas special of all time.
And here's the truth for us.
When you step into the restoration business, criticism often follows.
It will follow you.
You may feel overlooked or misunderstood.
You feel stepped on sometimes.
You might just sometimes feel like that weak little sack link.
Just barely holding it all together.
But I want you to hear this.
God, our God, is in the restoration business.
That's what he does.
And that's our big idea tonight.
God's love restores what others reject.
He is in the restoration business.
Hear me tonight.
He doesn't just return you to your original condition.
you will make you better than you have ever been.
The real meaning of Christmas, the real meaning of Christmas is this.
God saw our ugliness and gave us the most beautiful gift, Jesus.
And then He used the ugliest form of death across to produce the greatest beauty.
a new life in Christ.
Tonight you'll see under your chair you have some communion cups and you know just take some time and grab those.
And tonight as we take communion just want to remind ourselves that of that restoration
You know, just a reminder of restoration.
It's a sacred moment where we pause, reflect and remember what Jesus has done for us.
You know, as you hold the bread and the cup, it's not just a moment to pretend you're perfect, okay?
It's a moment to be honest.
When we take communion, we're saying, yes, yes, there is brokenness in me.
Yes.
The cross was painful and ugly, and yes, God's love is beautiful and strong enough to cover it all.
The word communion means common unity.
Even in this room, even in this room, filled with different stories, different struggles, different backgrounds, all of us have one thing in common tonight.
All of us, we all need grace.
We all need grace.
And like that Charlie Brown Christmas tree, we're all imperfect.
We're all imperfect and in need of restoration.
We all need that.
And the bread in your hands represents the broken body of Christ, giving willingly.
For us, Jesus stepped into our brokenness and took it upon himself.
The cup represents his blood, poured out for the forgiveness of sins, poured out to restore us, heal us, and make us new.
So before we take your unions, I want to take a quiet moment, let your hearts settle for a minute.
Compess anything that needs to be surrendered,
Thank Jesus for his sacrifice, receive his grace, his humility, and gratitude.
Let's take a moment.
Let's pray together.
Jesus, thank you for your buy and brother for us, for your blood poured out, for the forgiveness of our sins,
We come to you just as we are grateful, humble, and in need of your grace.
Search our hearts, restore what is broken, and remind us tonight that the depth of your love and receive, we receive this gift of thanksgiving.
Isn't Jesus' powerful name I pray?
Amen.
Church, go ahead and take the bread in your hand.
This bread represents the body of Christ.
We'll prefer you.
Take it, eat it, and remember it's up here.
Now hold the cup.
This cup represents the blood of Christ poured out for the forgiveness of our sins.
Take it and drink it in remembrance of Him.
This is the heart of Christmas.
The light of the world came into our darkness.
Not to condemn us, but to save us.
Christmas is about the light of the world shining into our darkness and revealing our need for a Savior, pointing to Jesus.
In 2 Corinthians 5, 20, so we are Christ's ambassadors.
God is making His appeal through us.
We speak for Christ when we plead, come back to God.
This Christmas, I want you to remember.
In Christ, you are restored, renewed, and transformed.
And maybe someone around you is asking, isn't there anyone who knows what Christmas is all about and may you, may you be someone's life during this Christmas season?
May your life point to him into the light of Jesus.
Pray with me.
I fought around this holy life.
We thank you for the greatest gift ever given.
Your son, Jesus Christ.
Thank you for seeing us when we felt small or overlooked or loving us enough to restore us, just like that little tree.
Your love makes us new and beautiful and whole.
Jesus, tonight we remember your birth, your life, your sacrifice, your unneeded love.
Thank you for stepping into our darkness to bring us to life.
Thank you for meeting us when we were not at our best, but when we were at our works and calling us yours.
Holy Spirit, shine through us as we go.
Help us be the people of hope, peace, joy, and love.
Help us be blindness in a world searching for meaning, ambassadors of your grace and patience, of restoration, and barriers of your life.
May the wonder of Christmas feel our hearts and the love of Christ God our steps, and may the peace of God rest on every home represented here tonight.
We celebrate you.
We love you.
We give you all the glory.
It is in Christ's mighty, powerful and wonderful name I pray.
Amen.